R-Cade Documentation Project

Please forgive the mess and the lack of any organization. My goal here is to get some useful information down for using R-Cade.  Contributions are welcome!

First off, to all the hackers out there who know what they are doing and want to get started.  The root password by default is retro, you can change it in the gui, ssh is enabled by default,  have fun and goodbye.  As for the rest of us humans who need a little help, lets get started with some install instructions.

First, you need a device capable of running r-cade.  Several are supported, see the releases section for a list of supported devices. Please note, in some cases such as the rock64 board, it’s found in quite a few devices.  So simply because your device isn’t listed doesn’t mean it won’t work, check what board it’s based on and get the closest matching build you can find and see if it works!

Step 1, download a build for your board.

Step 2, is where things get more difficult.  Depending on your device and equipment you have, it may be easier to remove the EMMC module and use a writer to write the image to it.  If you don’t have a writer, or your EMMC module is soldered to the board, or you don’t have one at all such as a raspberry pi.  Then follow these instructions to write to an sd card exactly as you would the EMMC module, and if your device has a soldered in EMMC module, or you lack a writer for it, I’ll walk you through how to install to EMMC later, but be sure to use at least a 16 gig sd card so we have room for a copy of the image.  I suggest using etcher, or Rufus to write the disk as they are faster and easier, but dd works too for those who prefer it.  My instructions will be for etcher. Use what you know and trust. So, attach your EMMC module to the writer board or insert sd card into a slot or adapter and plug it into your computer.  Windows, linux, Mac, pencil sharpener it doesn’t matter,  if it has an os etcher probably works on it. Download a copy [it’s full name is balenaEtcher] and install it in your os. Select the image you downloaded, no need to uncompress it first as etcher will handle that for you,  select your EMMC module or sd card from interface, and hit flash.  Grab coffee, depending on speed of your sd card, reader, usb port and so on this may take a few minutes.  When it’s finished, remove the module/card and insert into your device.  Depending on the device the first boot may take a while as it has some after install setup to do.

Step 3, Setup networking as the next step requires a network connection to your new r-cade, and some of the features work best with internet too. If you have an ethernet connection please connect it as it works best, current release of r-cade has issues with wifi.  Don’t misunderstand, wifi does work but it can be flakey sometimes.  If you don’t have a cable or prefer wifi, go to network settings in the gui and setup your wifi network.  After setting it up reboot the device. Always reboot from the menu, if you don’t it may fail to save the config changes.  If your device refuses to connect to wifi, blank out the password, save it by hitting ok, then enter password again and save again, then reboot again.  Told you it was flakey.  Once you successfully get it to connect it’ll usually have no further issues.  In some cases, you may need to go into advanced network settings and add a boot delay to wait for network. 10-20 seconds is usually all that’s needed, and device will wait UP TO the time you set.  If it connects before the full time has passed it won’t keep waiting.

Step 4, if you don’t have an EMMC module, don’t want to install to the EMMC module, or flash yours in step 2, then skip this step.  To install to EMMC module, open your file manager on your computer, find the r-cade device and open the share folder.  Decompress the image you flashed to your sd card and copy it over to the share.  Next connect with any ssh client, most os’s have one built in. The default password is retro.  Type dd if=imagename of=/dev/mmcblk0 replace imagename with the name of the image ending in .img that you copied over.  This step will take a while as dd is stupidly slow sometimes.  Grab more coffee, pet the cat, feed the dog, or something.  You will know it finished when the prompt returns and it says something about bites written. I suggest typing sync to insure the write cache is flushed, then unplug your power cable, remove the sd card and plug power back in. Device will go through same setup process as last time. Please repeat step 3 to setup your internet again if you want it.

Congrats on having your r-cade fully installed!  In the next chapter we’ll start going over some of the features.  Again, sorry if this isn’t highly detailed or made to look pretty, this is the first draft to get things recorded and hopefully get some instructions out to folks.  I’ll try to polish it up as time allows.
